Well let's continue working on the television here.
I think for the screen of the TV that old tube screen I think I'm going to use something like a sphere
to get that rounded shape.
Let's try it.
I'm going to create a U-V sphere and take the segments down to maybe I don't know 16 I have a 12 and
8 rings and I want to take away half of the sphere so I'm going to hit the three key the five key to
go to orthographic alt tab into that mode and hit the Z key and also switch over to face mode.
And now I'll hit the B key to turn on the border select tool and I'll just click and drag the faces
back here at the back of the sphere and hit X and delete faces.
Now I'm going to tab back into object mode and scale on the y axis with X and Y and kind of flatten
this up a bit so it's more like the screen here and we go.
And then if I hit the one key I'm going to tab into edit mode again and this time I'm going to border
select the faces right up at the top and hit X and delete faces and border select the these down here
at the bottom like this x and faces.
And I may even want these other this other row of faces deleted as well but let me take a look at it
and see what I think here.
So let's move this into place and let's scale it down a bit so it kind of fits around here and yeah
it almost looks like I don't need these top faces here so I'll go ahead and select this with the b key.
Hit B again and select those and hit X and faces again.
Now let's take a look at this.
If I bring this object forward a bit here in the y axis I can kind of fit it right up against their.
That looks pretty good.
I'm gonna hit the five key again to go back to perspective view I just like to work in perspective view
a little better I don't know why.
And then I'm going to come up here to the Tools tab and click the smooth shading and there we go that
kind of smooths it up.
So now we have that kind of curved television tube there and you can of course scale it however you
want to get more or less of a curve.
But I think I'm going to go with that for now.
Now let's work on the knobs over here.
So these little guys right here I don't think they need to be that intricate but we can at least kind
of hint at it.
We're going to need a plate here this kind of just metal plate.
I'll go ahead and add one here maybe I'll select this face press shift s and move the cursor to the
selected face and then from that point I'll go ahead and create a cube right here.
Little big and that's ok we'll scale it down a bit maybe take away that face at the back with X and
faces and then we can kind of scale this in the y with X and Y and scale that.
So it's a little flatter and maybe move that into place.
Now let's see if that fits.
And that's not too bad it could probably come down a bit more like that.
And we go and let's put that up here in place.
All right.
So we have that there's also another plate right down here and I'm going to put that Zenith logo on
this one down here I think and leave this one up here blank because I don't really have a texture for
this.
So I'm going to go ahead and just put it down here so I'll just duplicate this shift D.
Hit the Z key and move this down here and maybe kind of collapse just a little bit like that.
All right so we have those in place.
What else do we need to do we need to do the legs let's do those for these.
Now these are kind of square issue it looks like so maybe a cube.
Let's try that.
Put the cursor back into the center of the grid with shift C and I'll come over here the Create tab
and click cube and let's scale this down quite a bit scale this up in the Z.
Let's try and put it in place.
I'll hit the three key five key z key.
And now here we go.
We need to try and figure out how tall this is going to be.
So let's put this up here up front and that looks to me about the right size for the legs so let's bring
the whole TV down a bit.
Something like that.
Maybe I can tab into edit mode select that face at the bottom and press S and scale that in a bit so
it's a little bit narrower at the bottom.
Come over to the front view and let's move it into place here.
And then what we can do is with this face still selected I'll just drag it over a bit kind of give us
that angled look there.
All right.
That looks pretty good.
Now we don't need the top in the bottom faces here.
Do we so I'll select those two and hit X and faces and then I'll hit the 7 key and press shift D and
move that here in the y axis like that like these two shift D and X and move these over here.
And now what I can do is I can spin this all the way around with these two selected.
I could hit our 180 and that'll spin them all the way around.
All right so now let's take a look at it.
Hit that five key.
There we go.
So now let's work on these knobs here.
I'll select this piece tab into Edit Mode shift s cursor to selected.
And now I can create a cylinder here.
Let's reduce the number of faces to maybe 12.
Let's try that.
Remove any cap fill here so choose nothing and I'll rotate around the x axis with our x 9 0 and we go
and let's scale this down and put it in place X Y.
And here we go.
So this let's say is going to be this one right over here so maybe I can place it like this.
Let me go to my front view and orthographic and wireframe and maybe I can place it a little better like
this something like that.
Let's say I'll zoom in with period key and now let's try and create something that looks like this.
I don't think I need all of this geometry in here but we need something that kind of hints at it.
So I'll tab into edit mode and maybe go to edge mode and select this edge and I'm going to move this
down here like this for say this part right here.
Hit the scale in a bit and move it out maybe scale that in a little more and let's go ahead and see
and why and move that straight out it's hit extrude and scale straight out now.
And what I'll do is go ahead and bring this forward with e y.
And yeah let's go ahead and hit E and scale this all the way in and then I'll just kind of punch this
out just a little bit.
And scale this in like this.
Now I'll go ahead and press alt M and choose merge to center.
So there we go.
So it's not quite what we see here but I think it kind of hints at it we can move this back and place
it right in here.
All right.
So there's that.
We'll go ahead and take that and duplicate it with shift D and move that right down here like that.
I'll go and press shift C to move the cursor down to the center of the grid and Z to go back to shaded
view and 5 for perspective.
All right so now we have our TV and see is there anything else we need to put on here.
I feel like there's kind of a hard edge around here.
I wonder if there's anything I can do about that.
Perhaps I could choose these faces here and flatten them.
Let's try that.
If I go to shading Uvas and hit flat see what happens there.
Yes see that gives it a little more of an edge around there kind of like this.
I think that'll work.
Let's now work on U-V mapping it and getting it ready to be textured.
Now I know that in this scene I am never going to see the back of this TV or the bottom of this TV.
I know that because this is my project and I get to say how it's going to be.
Now if you're working on a project in a team environment or a studio you may not have this kind of luxury
and that's fine but I know I'm never going to see the back of this tv and I'm never gonna see the bottom
of the TV so I'm going to hit the C key and select these faces back here and just get rid of them because
I know I don't need them and I don't want them in my scene and I don't want to have to use them.
Honestly so I'll grab all of these and get rid of them.
So there we go.
There is what we need to U-V map.
I like that I like that it's a little simpler.
All right so let's think about this.
I'm going to go to my U-V editing screen lay out I'm going to hit the period key to zoom into this area
here.
I think I'm going to wait to combine all of these objects until after I view the map.
Them are U-V mapped them one at a time as individual objects and I think that's sometimes a little bit
easier.
I don't want my U-V test view here so I'm going to click the X right here to get rid of that for now.
So let's let's begin.
I'm going to select that TV screen I'll press shift.
H.
And there it is.
So that looks like it's going to be pretty easy to U-V map Alt-Tab into edit mode.
Hit the A key you and unwrap.
Now it's looking a little curved here.
I think we can maybe apply our transforms and see how that looks saw press control a and hit scale.
I'll tab into edit mode and hit you and unwrap and.
Yeah that looks a little better now.
Now I have this stretch feature turned on just so I can see the amount of stretching here and it looks
totally blue which means no stretching so that's good.
I'll go back to object mode press alt h to bring everything else back let's work on just the cabinet
now I'll select that press shift.
H.
And here we are with just the cabinet tab into edit mode and let's see if we can split this out in a
reasonable way here.
I think maybe I'll press alt and click an edge here let me get into edge mode so I'll press alt and
click this edge now that selects that entire edge all the way around I'll go ahead and add a seam there.
Mark seen let's go ahead and add a seam here.
And here as well control e Mark seam and that'll break those out.
Now I'm going to want to use this area to U-V map that speaker's screen so I better split this out as
well.
I'll press alt and click and that doesn't much help.
I'll just press shift and select these edges here and Marcuse seem well also split out this interior
piece here too.
I'll press alt and click and shift and allt see if I can get these selected all the way around here.
Like this and this let's go and break this out.
Larc seem all right let's see how we did Alt-Tab into object mode press control a and choose scale.
And now let's go into edit mode.
Hit you and unwrap and I don't like this whatever that is.
What is that.
That's kind of gross.
Let's take a look at that.
I want to turn this on so that I can select a face and hit the period key over here and zoom in and
see what that is.
Let's select face mode here and hit El hover over face and hit Al and that'll like that whole thing.
That's this whole piece here.
So we should probably split this up as well to break it apart into its individual edges here.
So let me let's take this ledge here and here.
And all the way around to here and let's mark a seam there and let's do that for all of the other parts
or sides as well.
I'll go ahead and slide this and these edges
and let's do the same for down here.
All right with those seams.
Mark let's go and select everything again.
Hit you and unwrap and see how we did.
Yeah that's a little better see how it's laying these out flat.
Now I think that'll work a little bit better.
Not going to hit Control up arrow and take a look at this full screen.
One thing I'm not too sure about.
Let me turn this part off here.
If I select this piece right here let's move that out and take a look at this.
I'm not real wild about all of this.
I think because I'm going to be laying down kind of a woodgrain veneer on this I'd like to have this
piece split out so I can arrange it in line with the woodgrain as well.
So let me go back to my object here and it's this one here isn't it.
So I'll select this edge right here.
And this edge and mark a seam and I'll do this down on the bottom as well.
All right let's try one more time.
Hey you to unwrap.
And here we go.
Let's see how we did here.
Yeah.
I think that works a little bit better.
Let me hit Control up arrow here and yeah I think we're going to be able to align the woodgrain a little
bit better with this.
That's good.
I'll work on aligning these once we get everything all combined together again.
So let's go back and let's try the next part I'll press alt H.
And what else do you want to do.
Well how about this piece here.
Let's try this.
I'll press shift H.
And let's just try it like this.
Why not a press control a and hit the scale and then I'll tab into edit mode and hit the A key and let's
just try you and unwrap.
What do you think.
Not great but not bad.
Now this is going to be all one just solid material.
We're not going to be putting any woodgrain or text or anything that we can really tell that it's stretched.
So since it's just going to be all one material I think I'm going to leave it and give it a try.
You can see all the stretching here but a lot of that is what's going on back here inside the TV.
I mean this part here is going to be pretty well hidden.
So let's let's not worry too much about this.
I think we'll be OK.
Now let's let's work on these pieces here.
I'll just select it hit you and unwrap and that's really ugly.
Let's try and apply our scale and try again you and unwrap.
That's better.
Yeah I don't mind.
Once again the stretching around the edge because it's going to be all one material.
Let's try this one control a scale tab into edit mode and you and unwrap.
That's not too bad either although this one is going to have a texture on it.
Maybe I can just go ahead and select these edges here just to see if it's going to help it a bit.
Let me select these edges around the corners.
Mark seems here and recall that there is no face on the back of this so it's just a one sided object
here which is good when we're U-V mapping.
I'll go ahead and select everything and you and unwrap and that allows that to break apart a little
easier.
That looks a little better.
All right.
Now this part right in here we need to think about here so where is this face right here.
There it is.
We're going to have to remember and know where that is because we're going to put a texture on that
as well.
Let's do one of these.
I'm going to press shift h zoom in with the period key and for this we could probably just create seams
along here.
Here here and I'm going to put seams here and one there.
So we've kind of got seams breaking out the cylindrical parts and keeping the flat parts.
This part here.
Go ahead and split that out too just to see how we do there.
All right.
Let's try it control a and scale.
Select everything you and enwrap.
Yeah that's not too bad.
That breaks it out because we're going to put a black kind of color here on that top part right there.
All right.
That's not too bad.
Now that is U-V mapped.
I'm not going to do the other one.
I'm just going to duplicate it.
So I don't need this.
Get rid of that take this one and just duplicate it.
Now that it's been U-V mapped.
There we go.
All right.
I think oh we need the legs right.
Let's do those.
I will go ahead and make those all one object with control.
And now if I hit shift 8 you will isolate those Alt-Tab and edit mode.
And once again since these do not have any tops or bottoms I can go into edge mode and just select the
center edges this and Mark seem there I should probably apply to transference for the scale.
A You and enwrap good.
Yeah that looks good.
OK.
Now Allt H.
Bring everything back select everything with the eight key control J to make it all one object tab into
edit mode select everything.
And now over here in the U-V map I'll hit the A key just like everything press control a press control
p.
And now we have everything in the map.
Let's see how we did.
I'll hit Control up arrow and let's see how we did.
I'd kind of like to rotate this so I'm going to click this rotate.
Here we go.
Hit control up arrow again.
All right.
So now we've got things pretty well placed.
I can see this is the top of the television.
These are the sides I believe they should probably be in line with each other.
Here's all the edges they're pretty well in line with each other.
Let me just rotate this one I'll press are 9:0 and see how that works.
Let me scale it down just a hair so it'll fit in there.
And here we go.
So I think that looks pretty good.
I think all of the woodgrain now is going this way.
We've got our TV screen and our frame around the screen here.
This is the polygon we want to lay that Speaker texture down onto.
And this is the plate that we want to put the zenith thing onto.
Now I can scale that up just a little bit give it a little more breathing room.
There it doesn't need to be quite that small.
That could help there.
Give that a little bit more detail there are these here these could turn the other way couldn't they.
Let's try that.
Our 9:0 here and let's see we'll need to fit that in somewhere.
This could turn the other way.
I'll need to fit that in here in just a minute.
And all of this is all one piece or all one texture all of this needs to be together let's grab all
of this and move this out so we can separate that out.
Well go ahead and move these down here.
These aren't really prominent in the television.
I don't think and scale them back up a bit and then I'll take this guy and allow him to breathe a little
bit more since we're going to have actual texture on that.
There we go.
All right.
So now I've got it arranged I think to maximize this part and this part that are going to actually accept
the texture and then all of these pieces here are going to have woodgrain on them and they're all going
in generally the same direction.
So let's see how this works in the next video we'll start working on the textures.